MARCEL RAY
mr@marcelray.com
www.marcelray.com

Design technologist focused on helping creative teams quickly ideate, prototype, and test nascent products that connect physical and digital worlds.

EXPERIENCE

Technical & Design Consultant
Nov 2007 – Present
Currently modernizing North Cascades National Park's permitting processes and redesigning trailhead signage. Past organizations have included the National Audubon Society; Cesar Millan, The Dog Whisperer; WNET PBS NYC; Nickelodeon.

Oculus Research 
Design Technologist
Jan 2018 – Jun 2019
Defined, prototyped, and tested multi-modal interactions for the future of virtual and mixed realities. Built custom hardware prototypes, integrated engineering prototypes, and leveraged off-the-shelf AR/VR devices and hand tracking platforms. Developed higher fidelity experiential demos for internal symposiums and executive leadership review.

Microsoft Hacking STEM Education 
Design Developer
Mar 2017 – Oct 2017
Driving force behind a major C# code migration and UI redesign of the Microsoft Excel Data Streamer add-in used by STEM educators and students around the world to visualize real-time data from Arduino microcontrollers.

Amazon Go Store 
Senior Design Technologist
Aug 2014 – Oct 2015
Spearheaded the design technology program and spatial prototyping processes for Amazon's innovative physical retail concept centered around a checkout-free shopping experience.

Microsoft Band, Connected Car 
UX Prototyper
Sept 2012 – Jul 2014
Collaborated with researchers and designers on the design and implementation of visual and UI flow explorations for cutting-edge consumer products. Rapidly developed high fidelity, end-to-end prototypes which were critical for formal usability testing as well as presentations to senior-leadership and corporate partners.

Belle & Wissell
Technical Lead
Jun 2010 – Aug 2012
Technical direction and development of interactive exhibits and installations for nationally and internationally recognized museums and environments.

Nintendo of America
API Designer
Mar 2009 – Dec 2009
Designed the official Nintendo Wii Flash video API for content providers and partners—including the BBC–to easily support video playback on the Wii from other platforms.

Smashing Ideas, Inc. 
Interactive Developer
Mar 2006 – Oct 2007

Eastman Kodak 
Camera Interface Developer
Dec 2004 – Feb 2006

Buck & Pulleyn
Interactive Developer & Designer
Aug 2004 – Dec 2004

Element K
Interactive Developer
Oct 2003 – Jul 2004

SKILLS + TOOLS

JavaScript ES6, TypeScript
Node.js
Vue.js, React, Angular
UX/UI Design
CSS, LESS, SASS
WebSockets, Serial
Python, PHP
Cordova/PhoneGap
C#, .NET
Unity 3D
VR/MR/AR
Arduino, Raspberry Pi
Duct tape, super glue
Wizardry

ACCOLADES

Amazon
Highest Performance Rating
May 2015

EDUCATION

Rochester Institute of Technology
BS, New Media
magna cum laude

